# RSS Processing

## RSS processing pipeline

This tutorial explains how to build a pipeline that gathers and
processes data from an RSS feed and alerts users when specific criteria
are met. It’s a companion to a [live coding session](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X9swwr0Rjx4&t=1s){target=_blank}
on YouTube, where we sourced data from a StackOverflow RSS feed for use
in a Python service.

This tutorial has three parts

  - Sourcing data

  - Processing data

  - Sending alerts

What you need

  - A free [Quix account](https://quix.io/signup){target=_blank}. It
    comes with enough credits to create this project.

  - A Slack account with access to create a webhook. ([This guide](https://api.slack.com/messaging/webhooks){target=_blank} can help you with this step.)

### Sourcing data

#### 1\. Get the “RSS Data Source” connector

In your Quix account, go to the library and search for “RSS Data
Source.” (Hint: you can watch Steve prepare this code in the video
tutorial if you’re like to learn more about it.)

Click “Setup & deploy” on the “RSS Data Source” library item. (The card
has a blue line across its top that indicates it’s a source connector.)

![RSSTutorial/image1.png](../images/RSSTutorial/image1.png)

#### 2\. Configure the connector

In the configuration panel, keep the default name and output topic.
Enter the following URL into the rss\_url field:
[https://stackoverflow.com/feeds/tag/python](https://stackoverflow.com/feeds/tag/python){target=_blank}

Click “Deploy” and wait a few seconds for the pre-built connector to be
deployed to your workspace.

You will then begin to receive data from the RSS feed. The data then
goes into the configured output topic. Don’t worry, you won’t lose data.
It’s cached in the topic until another deployment starts reading it.

### Processing data

You can do anything you want in the processing phase of a pipeline. You
might want to merge several input streams or make decisions on your
data. In this tutorial, you’ll filter and augment data so that only
questions with certain tags get delivered to you.

#### 1\. Get the “RSS Data Filtering” connector

Return to the library tab in Quix and search for “RSS Data Filtering.”
Click “Setup & deploy” on the card.

If you created a new workspace for this project, the fields
automatically populate. If you’re using the workspace for other
projects, you may need to specify the input topic as “rss-data.”

You might also want to customize the tag\_filter. It is automatically
populated with a wide range of tags related to Python. This works well
for this demo, because you’ll see a large return of interesting posts.
But you can decrease or add tags.

#### 2\. Deploy “RSS Data Filtering” connector

Click “Deploy” on the “RSS Data Filtering” connector. Once deployed, the
connector will begin processing the data that’s been building up in the
rss-data topic.

Have a look in the logs by clicking the Data Filtering Model tile (pink
outlined) on the workspace home page.

![RSSTutorial/image2.png](../images/RSSTutorial/image2.png)

The transformation stage is now complete. Your project is now sending
the filtered and enhanced data to the output topic.

### Sending alerts

Last in our pipeline is the destination for our RSS data. This demo uses
a Slack channel as its destination.

#### 1\. Get the “Slack Notification” connector

Return to the Quix library and search for the “Slack Notification.”
Click “Preview code.” You’re going to modify the standard code before
deploying this connector.

![RSSTutorial/image3.png](../images/RSSTutorial/image3.png)

Click “Next” on the dialog box. Ensure “filtered-rss-data” is selected
as the input topic and provide a Slack “webhook\_url.”

!!! note

	If you have your own slack, head over to the [Slack API pages](https://api.slack.com/messaging/webhooks){target=_blank} and create a webhook following their guide “Getting started with Incoming Webhooks.” If you don’t have your own Slack or don’t have the account privileges to create the webhook, you can choose another destination from the library, such as Twilio.

Warning: Use a dev or demo or unimportant Slack channel while you’re
developing this. Trust me.

#### 2\. Modify and deploy the “Slack Notification” connector

Enter your webhook into the webhook\_url field. Click “Save as project.”
This will save the code to your workspace, which is a GitLab repository.

Once saved, you’ll see the code again. The quix\_function.py file should
be open. This is what you’ll alter. The default code dumps everything in
the parameter data and event data to the Slack channel. It’ll do to get
you up and going, but we want something more refined. 😉

Go to our GitHub library of tutorial code
[here](https://github.com/quixai/tutorial-code/blob/main/RSS/Slack-Notification-Destination/quix_function.py){target=_blank}.
The code picks out several field values from the parameter data and
combines them to form the desired Slack alert.

Copy the code and paste it over the quix\_function.py file in your
project in the Quix portal.

Save it by clicking “CTRL+S” or “Command + S” or click the tick in the
top right.

Then deploy by clicking the “Deploy” button in the top right. On the
dialogue, change the deployment type to “Service” and click “Deploy”.

### Congratulations

You have deployed all three stages of the pipeline and should be
receiving thousands of Slack messages. You might be thinking that Quix
has led you on the path to destroying your Slack server. But don’t worry
— the pipeline is processing all the cached messages and will stop soon,
honest. If this were a production pipeline, you’d be very happy you
haven’t lost all those precious live messages.

![RSSTutorial/image4.png](../images/RSSTutorial/image4.png)

### Help

If you run into trouble with the tutorial, want to chat with us about
your project or anything else associated with streaming processing you
can join our public Slack community called [The Stream](https://quix.ai/slack-invite){target=_blank}.
